# `ResultMessage` and `ResultErrors`

Classes that standardize error messages. It will be demonstrated how to create them.

## `ResultMessage`

`ResultMessage` is a class that standardizes the return of a message. It is a class that has the following properties:

- `Text`: The text of the message. The object is to display the message to users.
- `Property`: Property that originated the message, or property that is intended for the message. When not linked to any property, it will be null.
- `Code`: Code of the message. It is used to identify the message in the system. It is not mandatory.
- `Status`: Contains the values of status codes defined for HTTP. It is not mandatory. Used to help convert operation results into webapi's responses.
- `Exception`: Exception that originated the message. It is not mandatory.
- `AdditionalInformation`: Additional information about the message. It is not mandatory. It is a dictionary of key-value pairs.

> The `code` property is related to the `type` of the `ProblemDetails` (see [RFC 7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807)), but it may not be in format of a URI. When converto the message to `ProblemDetails`, the `code` can be a part of the `type` URI.

The best way to create messages is through factory methods,
which are static methods that return instances of `ResultMessage`.
The factory methods are:

- `Error`: Most generic way to create a message. There are several overloads for this method, with a high flexibility to create messages.
- `NotFound`: Creates a message with status code 404 (Not Found). It is used to indicate that a resource was not found. For this error a generic `code` is assigned, with value `"404"'.
- `InvalidParameter`: Creates a message with status code 400 (Bad Request). It is used to indicate that a parameter is invalid. For this error a generic `code` is assigned, with value `"400"'.
- `ValidationError`: Creates a message with status code 422 (Unprocessable Entity). It is used to indicate that a validation error has occurred. For this error a generic `code` is assigned, with value `"422"'.
- `ApplicationError`: Creates a message with status code 500 (Internal Server Error). It is used to indicate that an application error has occurred. For this error a generic `code` is assigned, with value `"500"'.
- `Forbidden`: Creates a message with status code 403 (Forbidden). It is used to indicate that the user does not have permission to perform the operation. For this type of error there is no generic `code` defined.
- `Conflict`: Creates a message with status code 409 (Conflict). It is used to indicate that a conflict has occurred. For this type of error there is no generic `code` defined.

There are some standardized error codes defined as constants in the `GenericErrorCodes` class:

- `GenericError`: `"4XX"`, generic error, used in the conversion from ProblemDetails to ResultMessage when the error code is not known.
- `NotFound`: `"404"`, errors of some entity/registry not found.
- `InvalidParameter`: `"400"`, errors where the parameters entered are invalid.
- `ValidationError`: `"422"`, errors where the input parameters are not valid by some application rule or domain.
- `ApplicationError`: `"500"`, application error, exception, which is not a validation error.

Error like `Forbidden` and `Conflict` do not have a generic code defined.
Errors of these types are related to specific business rules of the application, and are not generic errors.

### Creating a message

The simplest way to create a message is through the `Error` method with a text message:

```csharp
var message = ResultMessage.Error("Error message");
```

Additionally, we can define the code for an HTTP response:

```csharp
var message = ResultMessage.Error("Error message", HttpStatusCode.BadRequest);
```

We can define the code for the error. The error code can be used to identify the error in the client:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Error("error-code", "Error message");
```

Additionally, we can define the code for an HTTP response and an exception:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Error("error-code", "Error message", HttpStatusCode.BadRequest, exception);
```

We can define the code for the error and a property.
The property informs the client which property of the model the error refers to:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Error("error-code", "Error message", "PropertyName");
```

Additionally, we can define the code for an HTTP response, an exception and a property:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Error("error-code", "Error message", "PropertyName", HttpStatusCode.BadRequest, exception);
```

We can create an error from an exception:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Error(exception);
```

Additionally, we can define more properties, like: error code, property name and HTTP status code:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Error(exception, "PropertyName", "error-code", HttpStatusCode.BadRequest);
```

We can create a not found error. The will be a "404" string, and the http status code will be 404 "NotFound":

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.NotFound("Error message", "PropertyName");
```

Additionally, we can define the code for the error, the error code can be used to identify the error in the client:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.NotFound("error-code", "Error message", "PropertyName");
```

We can create an invalid parameter error. The will be a "400" string, and the http status code will be 400 "BadRequest":

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.InvalidParameter("Error message", "PropertyName");
```

We can create a validation error. The will be a "422" string, and the http status code will be 422 "UnprocessableEntity":

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.ValidationError("Error message", "PropertyName");
```

Additionally, we can define the code for the error and an exception, the error code can be used to identify the error in the client:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.ValidationError("error-code", "Error message", "PropertyName", exception);
```

We can create a forbidden error. For errors of this type, the error code must be informed. The http status code will be 403 "Forbidden":

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Forbidden("error-code", "Error message", "PropertyName");
```

We can create a conflict error. For errors of this type, the error code must be informed. The http status code will be 409 "Conflict":

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.Conflict("error-code", "Error message", "PropertyName");
```

We can create an application error from an exception. The will be a "500" string, and the http status code will be 500 "InternalServerError":

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.ApplicationError(exception);
```

Additionally, we can define the message for the error:

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.ApplicationError(exception, "Error Message");
```

Finally, we can create an application error from a message. The will be a "500" string, and the http status code will be 500 "InternalServerError":

```csharp
var error = ResultMessage.ApplicationError("Error Message");
```

### Creating a message with additional information

We can create a message with additional information:

```csharp
// variables for the example
var id = Guid.NewGuid();
var value = 10;
var required = 20;

// create the message and add extra data
var message = ResultMessage.Conflict("error-code, Error message", "PropertyName")
    .WithAdditionInfo("Id", id)
    .WithAdditionInfo("CurrentValue", value)
    .WithAdditionInfo("RequiredValue", required);
```

The additional information can be any object, and will be serialized to JSON.

## `ResultErrors`

The `ResultErrors` class is a collection of `ResultMessage` objects.
It is used to return multiple errors in a single `OperationResult`.

### Creating a collection of errors

For `ResultErrors`, there are no factory methods. To create a collection of errors, we can use the constructor:

```csharp
// Create a empty ResultErrors.
var result = new ResultErrors();
```

And now we can add errors to the collection:

```csharp
// add a message
var message = ResultMessage.Error("Error message");
result.Add(message);
```

We can add multiple errors at once:

```csharp
// Create a empty ResultErrors.
var result = new ResultErrors();

// add many messages with the With method
result.With(ResultMessage.Error("Error message 1"))
    .With(ResultMessage.Error("Error message 2"))
    .With(ResultMessage.Error("Error message 3"));
```

There is an implicit conversion from a `ResultMessage` to a `ResultErrors`:

```csharp
// Create a ResultMessage.
ResultMessage message = ResultMessage.Error("Error message");

// Implicit conversion to ResultErrors.
ResultErrors result = message;
```

There is also an implicit assignment of `ResultMessage` to `ResultErrors`:

```csharp
// Create a empty ResultErrors.
var result = new ResultErrors();

result += ResultMessage.Error("Error message 1");
result += ResultMessage.Error("Error message 2");
result += ResultMessage.Error("Error message 3");
```
