# Extensions for Http

There are two extension methods for the `HttpResponseMessage` class that convert the HTTP response into an `OperationResult`.
The name of the methods are the same, but one of them does not return a value and the other contains a generic type and returns a value.

Here are the methods:

- `ToOperationResultAsync`: converts the HTTP response into an `OperationResult` with no value.
  This method is used to obtain an OperationResult from an HttpResponseMessage.
  If the HTTP response status is successful, it returns a successful OperationResult with no message.
  If the HTTP response status is not successful, it reads the error status of the response.
- `ToOperationResultAsync<TValue>`: converts the HTTP response into an `OperationResult` with a value.
  This method is similar to the previous one, but is used when the HTTP response has a value that needs to be deserialised.
  If the HTTP response status is successful, it deserialises the response value and returns an OperationResult<TValue>.
  If the HTTP response status is unsuccessful, it reads the error status of the response.

When the HTTP response status is unsuccessful, it will read the response's error status
and try to deserialise the error message.

To do this, the `content-type` of the response is checked.

When it is `application/problem+json`, a `ProblemDetails` will be deserialised 
and converted into one or more error messages for the `OperationResult`.

When it is `application/json`, a `ResultMessage` will be deserialised and an `OperationResult` will be created with the failures.

When it is another type, the content will be read as text and an `OperationResult` will be created with the error message.

If there is no content, an `OperationResult` will be created with the error message containing
the ReasonPhrase or StatusCode of the response.

It is important to note that the transformation of `ProblemDetails` into `ResultMessage`
is a reverse process of the transformation of `ResultMessage` into `ProblemDetails`,
seen in the previous section.

If the `ProblemDetails` is generated by an API from another framework or in another format,
the transformation will be perfect when there is only one error,
but when there are more errors, the transformation may not generate all the error messages,
treating some information/errors as additional data.

Here are some examples of how these methods are used.

## Example of use

### ToOperationResultAsync

```cs
// Create a request - mark a task as completed
var request = new HttpRequestMessage(HttpMethod.Post, "/api/task/1/completed");

// Execute the request
var response = await client.SendAsync(request);

// Convert the response to an OperationResult
var result = await response.ToOperationResultAsync();

// Check if the result is success
var success = result.IsSuccessOrGetError(out var error);

// do other things
```

### ToOperationResultAsync<TValue>

```cs
// Create a request - get a task
var request = new HttpRequestMessage(HttpMethod.Get, "/api/task/1");

// Execute the request
var response = await client.SendAsync(request);

// Convert the response to an OperationResult
var result = await response.ToOperationResultAsync<Task>();

// Check if the result is success and get the value
var success = result.TryGetValue(out var task);

// do other things
```

## Conclusion

The extension methods `ToOperationResultAsync` and `ToOperationResultAsync<TValue>`
are powerful tools for handling HTTP responses.
They allow developers to easily convert an `HttpResponseMessage`
into an `OperationResult` or `OperationResult<TValue>`.

These methods simplify the process of deserialising HTTP responses,
making the code cleaner and easier to maintain.
In addition, they provide a standardised way of dealing with successful and unsuccessful responses,
which can improve code consistency and reliability.

Using these extension methods can also improve code readability.
Instead of having to deal with deserialisation and error handling logic in every HTTP request,
this logic is encapsulated in the extension methods.
This makes the code that uses these methods easier to understand, as the complex logic is abstracted away.

In summary, the extension methods `ToOperationResultAsync` and `ToOperationResultAsync<TValue>`
are a valuable addition to any C# project that deals with HTTP requests.
They simplify the code, improve maintainability and increase readability,
making them an excellent choice for developers who want to write high-quality code.
