# `ValidableResult`

A struct to represent a operation result, that can be used for validations.

This struct can be initialized as success and errors messages can be added, making the result a failure.

The following demonstrates how to use the `ValidableResult` struct.

## Creating a success result

The sample below shows how to create a success result:

```csharp
var result = new ValidableResult();
```

This result is valid, and can be used to return a success operation.

When adding errors to this result, it will become a failure.

## Creating a failure result

The sample below shows how to create a failure result:

```csharp
var result = new ValidableResult();

result += ResultMessage.Error("Error message 1");
```

Using the `+=` operator, we can add a `ResultMessage` to the result, making it a failure.

A failure result can be created from a `ResultErrors`:

```csharp
var errors = new ResultErrors();
errors += ResultMessage.Error("Error message");

var result = new ValidableResult(errors);
```

## Using for validations

The `ValidableResult` can be used for validations, as shown below:

```csharp
var result = new ValidableResult(); // Creates a success result

if (string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(book.Title))
    result += ResultMessage.Error("Title is required");

if (string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(book.Author))
    result += ResultMessage.Error("Author is required");

if (book.Pages <= 0)
    result += ResultMessage.Error("Pages must be greater than zero");

return result;
```

In the example above, the result is created as a success, and if an error message is added, the result becomes a failure.

## Working with `ValidableResult`

Once the `ValidableResult` has been created, we can work with it in different ways.

There are three methods that can be used to work with the result:
- `TryGetError`
- `Convert`
- `Match`

Here's how to use them.

### `TryGetError`

It is common to create a validation method that returns a `ValidableResult`.
After calling the method and getting the result, we can check if the result is invalid and, if it is, we can get the error messages.

Here's an example:

```csharp

var result = Validate(book);

var failure = result.TryGetError(out var errors);
```

The `TryGetError` method will return `true` if the result is invalid, and `false` if it is valid.
When the result is invalid, the `errors` parameter receives the result errors (`ResultErrors`).

These validations can occur within a method that returns an `OperationResult`, 
then we can use the `TryGetError` method to check if the result is invalid and, if it is, return the errors.

```csharp
public OperationResult ProcessBook(BookDto book)
{
    var result = Validate(book);

    if (result.TryGetError(out var errors))
        return errors;

    // do something with the book

    return new();
}
```

In the example above, the variable `errors` is obtained if `result` is a failure.
There is an implicit conversion from `ResultErrors` to `OperationResult`, so we can return `errors` directly.
As we are working with `struct`, there is no allocation of objects.

If the result is successful, the `TryGetError` method will return `false` and the code below will be executed.

### `Convert`

The `Convert` method can be used to convert a `ValidableResult` into an `OperationResult<TValue>`.

This is done through a conversion function, which receives the value of the result and returns the value of the `OperationResult<TValue>`.

Here's an example:

```csharp
public OperationResult<int> ValidateAndGetPages(BookDto book)
{
    var result = Validate(book);

    return result.Convert(() => book.Pages);
}
```

In this example, the `ValidateAndGetPages` method returns an `OperationResult<int>`.

If the result of `Validate` is valid, the `Convert` method will execute the conversion function and the value of `book.Pages` will be returned.

If the result is invalid, the conversion function will not be executed and the `OperationResult<int>` will be returned with the result errors.

There is an overload of the `Convert` method which receives a conversion function that takes an extra parameter.

Here's an example:

```csharp
public OperationResult<Guid> CreateBook(BookDto book)
{
    var result = Validate(book);

    return result.Convert(s => s.Create(book), bookStore);
}
```

In this example, the conversion function receives an extra parameter, which is `bookStore`.

### `Match`

The `Match` method can be used to perform an action according to the result, success or failure.
In each case, a function is executed and the return from the function is returned by the `Match` method.

Here's an example:

```csharp
public IResult ValidateBook(BookDto book)
{
    var result = Validate(book);

    return result.Match(
        success: () => Results.Ok("Book is valid"),
        failure: (errors) => Results.BadRequest(errors));
}
```

In this example, the `ValidateBook` method returns an `IResult` from AspNetCore (Minimal API).

If the result is valid, the function `() => Results.Ok("Book is valid")` will be executed and the `OK` result will be returned.

Otherwise, the function `(errors) => Results.BadRequest(errors)` will be executed and the `BadRequest` result will be returned.

The names of the parameters in the `Match` method are `success` and `failure`, and their use is optional. 
However, when used as in the example, the code is more readable.

There is an overload of the `Match` method which receives a conversion function that takes an extra parameter.

Here's an example:

```csharp
public Task ExecuteMatchAsync(ActionContext context, ValidableResult result)
{
    return result.Match(
        ExecuteSuccessResultAsync,
        ExecuteErrorResultAsync,
        context);
}
```

In this example, the `ExecuteMatchAsync` function receives an `ActionContext` from AspNetCore and a `ValidableResult`.

The `ExecuteSuccessResultAsync` and `ExecuteErrorResultAsync` are delegates of methods, and are executed according to the result.
