# Results for Minimal API

For Minimal Api there are different components and methods for each version of .Net.

To use them, you need to install the package: `RoyalCode.OperationResult.ApiResults`:

For **.Net 6.0** an extension method is available for `IResultExtensions` called `ToResult`, which will return an `IResult`. The returned object will produce an HTTP response according to the result, success or failure.

For **.Net 7.0** there is also the `ToResult` extension method, but the return type is typed, such as `Results<TResult1, TResult2>`. There are also other extension methods for specific return types.

An example of using the `ToResult` method for **.Net 6.0** would be this:

```csharp
// MapPost("/products")
public static async Task<IResult> Create(
    ProductDto productDto /* FromBody */,
    IProductService productService /* FromServices */)
{
    var result = await productService.CreateProductAsync(productDto);

    return Results.Extensions.ToResult(result, p => $"products/{p.Id}");
}
```

This example would work for both **.Net 6.0** and **.Net 7.0**, however, the return type for `ToResult` in **.Net 7.0** would be `Results<Created<Product>, MatchErrorResult>`.

There are other overloads for this method, just as there are for the extension methods for MVC controllers.

For **.Net 7.0** there are also extension methods called `CreatedMatch` and `OkMatch` for the results `OperationResult` and `OperationResult<T>`.

Using these methods, the previous example could look like this:

```csharp
// MapPost("/products")
public async Task<CreatedMatch<Product>> Create_2(
    ProductDto productDto /* FromBody */,
    IProductService productService /* FromServices */)
{
    var result = await productService.CreateProductAsync(productDto);

    return result.CreatedMatch(p => $"products/{p.Id}");
}
```

For .Net 7.0 using the `ToResult` extension method is not the best way to work with Minimal Api's, as there are types in the library that implement the `IResult` interface, which has several implicit conversions.

The types that implement the `IResult` interface are:

- `OkMatch` and `OkMatch<T>`: Represents a successful result with Status Code 200.
- `CreatedMatch` and `CreatedMatch<T>`: Represents a successful result with Status Code 201.
- `NoContentMatch`: Represents a successful result with Status Code 204.
- `MatchErrorResult`: Represents a failed result with Status Code obtained automatically from error messages.

> Except for `MatchErrorResult`, all the other types only exist in **.Net 7.0**.

The `MatchErrorResult` class will handle failure operations, picking up the messages and generating a response with the appropriate status code.

Examples for implicit conversions, the best way to work in **.Net 7.0**, will be presented in the next section.
