# Implict conversions for minimal API

For **.Net 7.0** there are implicit conversions between the operation result structs and the result objects for Minimal API.

The types that implement the `IResult` interface are:

- `OkMatch` and `OkMatch<T>`: Represents a successful result with Status Code 200.
- `CreatedMatch` and `CreatedMatch<T>`: Represents a successful result with Status Code 201.
- `NoContentMatch`: Represents a successful result with Status Code 204.
- `MatchErrorResult`: Represents a failed result with Status Code obtained automatically from error messages.

These classes implement the same logic as that used by the `Results<TResult1, TResult2>` class, which implements the interfaces: `IResult`, `INestedHttpResult` and `IEndpointMetadataProvider`. The classes in the **RoyalCode.OperationResult.ApiResults** library also implement these interfaces.

The first result is related to the type of response of the class name, for example, `OkMatch` has the first result Ok (200). The second result is the `MatchErrorResult`.

The `MatchErrorResult` also implements `IEndpointMetadataProvider` where four types of metadata (responses) are provided: `BadRequest` (400), `NotFound` (404), `Conflict` (409) and `UnprocessableEntity` (422).

This means that if a minimal api method/function returns an `OkMatch<T>`, the possible return types are `Ok<T>` and `MatchErrorResult`, and the status codes are 200, 400, 404, 409 and 422.

## Implicit conversions examples

Once this is understood, we can use implicit conversions to generate responses from our APIs in a simpler way. See the example below, where an entity is searched for, if it is found, a `200` is returned with the entity, otherwise a `404` is returned with the details of the problem:

```csharp
[HttpGet("{id}")]
public static OkMatch<Product> Get(int id, [FromServices] IProductService productService)
{
    Product? product = productService.Find(id);

    if (product is null)
        return ResultMessage.NotFound("Product not found", nameof(id));

    return product;
}
```

In the example, if the product is null, an error message (`ResultMessage`) of type `NotFound` is created. This message will be implicitly converted to the `MatchErrorResult` type which, in turn, will generate a response with the status code `404` and the error message.

If the product is found, the `Product` object returned by the method will be implicitly converted to the `OkMatch<Product>` type, which will generate a response with the status code `200` and the `Product` object.

Há conversões implícitas entre os tipos de resultado de operação e os objetos de resultado para Minimal API. Veja o mesmo exemplo acima, mas agora com o uso de `IOperationResult<Product>`:

```csharp
[HttpGet("{id}")]
public static async Task<OkMatch<Product>> GetAsync(int id, [FromServices] IProductService productService)
{
    OperationResult<Product> result = await productService.GetProductAsync(id);
    return result;
}
```

In the example, the `GetProductAsync` method returns an `IOperationResult<Product>`. This result is implicitly converted to the `OkMatch<Product>` type, which will generate a response with the status code `200` and the `Product` object if the operation is successful, or a response with the status code `404` and the error message if the operation fails.

For returns of the type `CreatedMatch` and `CreatedMatch<T>` (201) there are implicit conversions to `Created<T>` (201). Another option would be to use the `CreatedMatch` and `CreatedMatch<T>` extension methods, already presented in the previous section.

## Implicit conversions list

